# DRAFT

#  Software Development Life Cycle Application Security Benchmarking## Statement of Principles ##

Version 0.5 (26th January 2015) Draft© 2015 OWASP FoundationThis document is released under the Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 3.0 license. For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work # ScopeThis document describes a software security benchmarking initiative based on cooperative principals and real-world data gleaned from software development organizations at various points along a capability maturity continuum. The framework comprises a data format, submission process and a protected repository to share information about software development security maturity assessments.# ObjectiveThe desired outcome of this effort is to provide an open repository of real-world software security practices, allowing development teams and organizations to more easily compare themselves against their peers, and shape their own organizational journey in improving the security of software they develop and maintain.# IntroductionWhilst there exists a body of knowledge about what activities should be undertaken through the software development life cycle (SDLC), there is little shared data about what exactly development teams and organizations are doing based on sectors, size or architecture, and how mature their software security development practices are.
An anonymized centralized repository of application security benchmarking data will allow all types of software development organizations to compare and contrast how security is built into their software development practices. By sharing such data for the common good, software developers, operators, users and wider society will benefit from the combined pool of knowledge.
There are various models, measures and surveys. Some are highly proprietary, some are sector-specific, and some are not accessible without payment. To enable participation in this scheme that is a cross-sector, worldwide, independent and suitable for organizations of all sizes, the benchmarking is based on OWASP’s vendor-agnostic and free Open Software Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM). OpenSAMM also has the benefit of already being available in multiple languages including English, Spanish and Japanese.
The benchmarking initiative has defined meta-data attributes to allow tagging of the maturity assessment by sector, region, size, and type of applications. The benchmarking initiative is designed to protect the identity of the organization by anonymizing the data. This approach can be applied to an organization-wide assessment, to a department, to a team or to just one product.
Mappings to other models and standards are being created to allow cross-referencing with existing initiatives, compliance requirements and best practices. The benchmarking initiative is vendor agnostic and backed by OWASP, the hugely influential voluntary community of application security professionals.
The most accurate data will be obtained through benchmarking assessments performed by people with deep software security knowledge and experience, but the benchmarking can also be undertaken as self-assessment or as an internal audit – by application, by team, by office, by department, as well as by organization. # Core PrinciplesThe SDLC application security benchmarking scheme is based on two core principles:
* Participation for the common good - Organizations that develop software, in-house, outsourced, for use by themselves or by others, can learn from their peers to help improve their own secure SDLC programs and overall software security. Increasing security assurance organization-by-organization, sector-by-sector, increases resilience.* Open and vendor agnostic - The standard against which application security benchmarking is undertaken is freely available with an open source license. Anonymized benchmarking data submitted will be shared publicly and can be used  in any responsible way that complies with the open source license and the core principles defined here.
# Responsibilities and Obligations* Organizations that develop software - Entities that develop software internally or externally, which provide anonymized data about their application security practices and maturity of those practices. These are referred to simply as “organizations” subsequently. These organizations:
  * Perform software development - May self-assess against the standard, or be assessed by another party
  * Follow the scheme guidance if performing assessments

  * Provide accurate data directly, or indirectly, to the data steward
  * Can use the repository to benchmark their results with the aggregate capability assessment data based on available metadata attributes
 * Application security vendors - Consultants, suppliers and other entities that provide application security-related services and products to organizations. These are referred to as “vendors” subsequently. These vendors:

  * Recognize the shared value of accurate application security benchmarking

  * Encourage organizations to participate in the benchmarking initiative

  * Will not use the scheme as a pre-sales activity

  * Follow the scheme guidance if performing assessments* Data steward - The custodian responsible for the receipt and protection of the anonymized data. The data steward is:
  * Responsible for the safekeeping of the benchmarking data 
  * Independent of any software development organization or application security vendor.
  * Collects and maintains the anonymized data from anonymous and identifiable sources
  * Keeps identifiable source information separate from the data
  * Will never perform scheme assessments

* OWASP - OWASP will be the data owner. It will delegate the receipt and protection of the benchmarking data to the data steward.

* Everyone else - All the anonymous data will be publicly available. Non-participating groups and individuals can use the information in any responsible way that complies with the open source license and the core principles listed above.# Use CasesThe benchmarking initiative can help software development teams answer questions such as:* What differences are there in software security programs between mobile apps and websites in my industry peers?* How do companies like mine build security into the SDLC?* How does maturity change during an organization’s life?

A number of case studies are being developed.

# BibliographyBITS Financial Services Roundtable BITS Software Assurance Frameworkhttp://www.bits.org/publications/security/BITSSoftwareAssurance0112.pdfCIGITAL Building Security In Maturity Modelhttp://bsimm.com/CMU Team Software Process for Secure Systems Development (TSP Secure)http://www.cert.org/secure-coding/secure.htmlDACS/IATAC Software Security Assurance State of the Art Reporthttp://iac.dtic.mil/iatac/download/security.pdfENISA Secure Software Engineering Initiativeshttp://www.enisa.europa.eu/act/application-security/secure-software-engineering/
secure-software-engineering-initiativesISO/IEC 27034 Application Securityhttp://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=44378

MICROSOFT Security Development Lifecycle (SDL)http://www.microsoft.com/security/sdl/default.aspxNIST SP 800-64 Rev2 Security Considerations in the Information System Development Life Cyclehttp://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-64-Rev2/SP800-64-Revision2.pdfORACLE Software Security Assurance (OSSA)http://www.oracle.com/us/support/assurance/index.htmlOWASP Open Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM)http://www.opensamm.org/OWASP Comprehensive, Lightweight Application Security Process (CLASP)https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_CLASP_ProjectUS DoHS Building Security Inhttps://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/bsi/home.html
# About the Open Software Assurance Maturity ModelThe Open Software Assurance Maturity Model (OpenSAMM) is an open framework to help organizations formulate and implement a strategy for software security that is tailored to the specific risks facing the organization. The resources provided by 
OpenSAMM will aid in:
* Evaluating an organization’s existing software security practices* Building a balanced software security assurance program in well-defined iterations* Demonstrating concrete improvements to a security assurance program* Defining and measuring security-related activities throughout an organizationSAMM was defined with flexibility in mind such that it can be utilized by small, medium, and large organizations using any style of development. Additionally, this model can be applied organization-wide, for a single line-of-business, or even for an individual project. Beyond these traits, OpenSAMM was built on the following principles:* An organization’s behavior changes slowly over time - A successful software security program should be specified in small iterations that deliver tangible assurance gains while incrementally working toward long-term goals.* There is no single recipe that works for all organizations - A software security framework must be flexible and allow organizations to tailor their choices based on their risk tolerance and the way in which they build and use software.* Guidance related to security activities must be prescriptive - All the steps in building and assessing an assurance program should be simple, well-defined, and measurable. This model also provides roadmap templates for common types of organizations.The foundation of the model is built upon the core business functions of software development with security practices tied to each. The building blocks of the model are the three maturity levels defined for each of the twelve security practices. These define a wide variety of activities in which an organization could engage to reduce security risks and increase software assurance. Additional details are included to measure successful activity performance, understand the associated assurance benefits, estimate personnel and other costs.The current version of OpenSAMM is 1.0, and this is the same version used for benchmarking.http://www.opensamm.org# About OWASPThe Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a worldwide free and open community focused on improving the security of application software. Our mission is to make application security visible, so that people and organizations can make informed decisions about true application security risks.  Everyone is free to participate in OWASP and all of our materials are available under a free and open software license.https://www.owasp.org
